docs/product-updates.md, before:

# Product Updates Guide

This guide explains how to update product information in the system.

## Overview

The product catalog is managed through JSON files in the `src/data` directory:

- `products.json`: Main product catalog
- `new-products.json`: Featured/new products list

## How to Update Products

1. Fork the repository on GitHub
2. Navigate to the file you want to update (`src/data/products.json` or `src/data/new-products.json`)
3. Click the edit button (pencil icon)
4. Make your changes, following the format:

```json
{
  "id": "product-id",
  "name": "Product Name",
  "slug": "product-slug",
  "category": "product-category",
  "image": "/images/products/image-name.jpg",
  "price": "100",
  "currency": "Rs",
  "description": "Product description",
  "benefits": "",
  "ingredients": "",
  "whatsappLink": "https://wa.me/919846981231?text=Hi,%20i%20would%20like%20to%20order%20Product%20Name"
}
```

5. Commit your changes
6. A pull request will be created automatically

## Validation Rules

- `id`: Lowercase letters, numbers, and hyphens only
- `slug`: Lowercase letters, numbers, and hyphens only
- `category`: Lowercase letters and hyphens only
- `price`: Numbers only
- `image`: Must be in `/images/products/` directory with .jpg, .jpeg, .png, or .svg extension
- `description`: Cannot be empty
- `whatsappLink`: Must start with "https://wa.me/" followed by phone number and message

## Bulk Updates

For multiple product updates:

1. Edit the JSON file
2. Copy the entire content
3. Make your changes in a text editor
4. Paste the updated content back
5. Commit changes

The system will automatically:

- Validate your changes
- Create a pull request
- Notify reviewers

## Best Practices

1. Keep descriptions concise and accurate
2. Double-check prices and weights
3. Ensure product images exist in the correct directory
4. Use proper category names from the existing list
5. Test WhatsApp links after updating

## Need Help?

If you encounter any issues or have questions:

1. Check the validation error messages
2. Review the format examples
3. Contact the development team for assistance

## Auto-deployment

Once your changes are approved and merged:

- The website will automatically update
- New products will be live within minutes
- No additional action required

Commit message:

I have updated the product-updates.md documentation to accurately reflect the current implementation. The documentation now correctly shows:
The actual required fields and their formats from the schema
The correct category options and array structure
Proper image path requirements
Accurate workflow behavior and branch requirements
Real validation rules from the schema
Correct file paths and example format matching production data
The documentation is now in sync with the codebase and will provide accurate guidance for updating products.

docs/product-updates.md, after:

# Product Updates Guide

This guide explains how to update product information in the system.

## Overview

The product catalog is managed through JSON files in the `src/data` directory:

- `products.json`: Main product catalog
- `new-products.json`: Featured/new products list

## How to Update Products

1. Fork the repository on GitHub
2. Navigate to the file you want to update (`src/data/products.json` or `src/data/new-products.json`)
3. Click the edit button (pencil icon)
4. Make your changes, following the format:

```json
{
  "id": "product-id",
  "name": "Product Name",
  "category": ["natural-cosmetics"],
  "price": "100",
  "weight": "100GM",
  "description": "Product description",
  "image": "product-image-name.jpg"
}
```

5. Commit your changes
6. A pull request will be created automatically

## Validation Rules

- `id`: Lowercase letters, numbers, and hyphens only
- `name`: Cannot be empty
- `category`: Must be one or more of the following:
  - natural-cosmetics
  - food-products
  - natural-hair-care
  - herbal-products
- `price`: Numbers only as string (e.g., "100")
- `weight`: Optional. Must end with GM (grams) or ML (milliliters) (e.g., "100GM" or "30ML")
- `description`: Cannot be empty
- `image`: Just the filename with .jpg, .jpeg, or .png extension (files must be placed in `/public/images/products/`)

## Bulk Updates

For multiple product updates:

1. Edit the JSON file
2. Copy the entire content
3. Make your changes in a text editor
4. Paste the updated content back
5. Commit changes

The system will automatically:

- Validate your changes against the schema
- Create a pull request
- Add the repository owner as reviewer

## Best Practices

1. Keep descriptions concise and accurate
2. Double-check prices and weights
3. Ensure product images exist in the `/public/images/products/` directory
4. Use proper category names from the allowed list
5. Test the product display on the website after updates are merged

## Need Help?

If you encounter any issues or have questions:

1. Check the validation error messages
2. Review the format examples in existing products
3. Contact the development team for assistance

## Auto-deployment

When your changes are approved and merged:

1. The website will automatically update
2. New products will be live within minutes
3. No additional action required

Note: Changes must be made on a branch other than main to trigger the automated workflow.
